Update article on enterprise Linux for 2026 (#38617)
fleetdm/fleet: articles/why-enterprise-linux-is-important-in-2026.md

# Why enterprise Linux is important in 2026

> The Linux project began in 1991 when Linus Torvalds created a free kernel for his personal computer inspired by the Unix operating system. With the stability of Unix and an open-source development model, Linux stood in sharp contrast to mainstream operating system development in the 1990s. ([Steve Ballmer](https://www.theregister.com/2001/06/02/ballmer_linux_is_a_cancer/) infamously referred to Linux as a “cancer.”)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Linux project began in 1991 when Linus Torvalds created a free kernel for his personal computer, inspired by the Unix operating system. With the stability of Unix and an open-source development model, Linux stood in sharp contrast to mainstream operating system development in the 1990s.

In the 1990s and early 2000s, Linux wasn't just unfamiliar; incumbents actively resisted it. Microsoft's [Steve Ballmer](https://www.theregister.com/2001/06/02/ballmer_linux_is_a_cancer/) publicly framed Linux as a threat, reinforcing the idea that it didn't belong in enterprise environments.
```

Reviewer: The Ballmer quote feels abrupt. Especially for non-expert readers, like me. There's no setup to explain why that hostility matters to today's enterprise Linux story. I suggest reframing it as evidence of institutional resistance, something like this.

Author: @mike-j-thomas This is a well known incident, with a well-known person who was the CEO of Microsoft at the time mentioned. Without the link to the article, it could be confusing. I don't prefer your version.

From the beginning, Linux attracted a loyal community of enthusiasts willing to roll up their sleeves and contribute to the project. Linux gained traction by powering servers and backend systems, but, as a replacement open-source desktop operating system, its breakthrough always felt just out of reach. Even as alternatives like ChromeOS and Android emerged in the enterprise (both of which are based on the Linux kernel) IT departments continued to limit employee choice to Windows and macOS.

## A critical inflection point

Reports surfaced in 2025 that Linux desktop OS now exceeds [5% of computer market share](https://gs.statcounter.com/os-market-share/desktop/united-states-of-america/#monthly-201512-202512). This is an important signal: macOS was estimated to hold roughly 5–10% of the desktop market in the mid-2000s. At the time, macOS was widely dismissed as an unimportant challenger to Windows dominance in business. It was also frequently criticized as being “not ready for the enterprise.”

> For Linux, this level of adoption validates years of improvement on the desktop OS flavors. Increased market share also drives greater interest from hardware vendors, expanding global support and availability. This is not a historical anomaly, it’s a turning point. For IT teams, Linux management is no longer optional. It’s a requirement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That range matters. macOS’s share, once dismissed as irrelevant, marked the point at which enterprises began taking Apple seriously as a managed platform. Linux is now at a similar threshold.

For Linux, this level of adoption validates years of improvement on the desktop OS flavors. Increased market share also drives greater interest from hardware vendors, expanding global support and availability. This is not a historical anomaly, it’s a turning point. For IT teams, Linux management is no longer optional. It’s a requirement.
```

Reviewer: Apple's market share reference is under-explained, leaving me to infer its relevance. What do you think of this addition to help explain why the fact matters?

## The operational gap in Linux management

Linux endpoints present the same operational challenges as other devices:

- Provisioning and onboarding
- Software deployment and updates
- Certificate and configuration management
- Enforcing and remediating security baselines
- Compliance and reporting

Most organizations handle these challenges on macOS and Windows by using platform-specific device management solutions. Though there are powerful open-source tools available like Ansible, Puppet, OpenSCAP and osquery for managing Linux, each requires significant investment to learn, integrate, and maintain. Mainstream endpoint management platforms like Intune and Workspace ONE offer limited Linux support, leaving management challenges unresolved.

## The market is catching up

The market for device management solutions focused on macOS and Windows is enormous. Organizations spend billions of dollars every year to secure these computers. An entire universe of solutions exists, ranging from patch management, device management, remote control, endpoint protection and more. All have focused on Windows and macOS because that’s what the enterprise was demanding.

> Now, the market is demanding more. Fleet is a cross-platform device management solution based on open-source technology that provides full management coverage for Linux devices. The market for enterprise Linux management tools has been historically small. In 2026, it’s time to get serious about managing Linux. [Fleet](https://fleetdm.com/) can help.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Linux adoption has grown beyond what these tools were designed for, leaving the market demanding more. In response, Fleet is a cross-platform device management solution based on open-source technology that provides full management coverage for Linux devices. The market for enterprise Linux management tools has been historically small. In 2026, it's time to get serious about managing Linux. [Fleet](https://fleetdm.com/) can help.
```
